Evaluating the effects of stressors on biodiversity is becoming increasingly vital as global changes expand worldwide, yet our understanding of the effects of multiple stressors remains minimal after decades of research. Recent publications discuss the importance of species interactions for cumulative effects research (e.g. De Laender 2018, Global Change Biology; Bruder et al. 2019, Frontiers Environ. Science; Hodgson et al. 2019, Frontiers Ecol Evol; Orr et al. 2020, Proceeding Royal Soc), but the role of species interactions in mediating the effects of stressors has yet to be formally explored. We conceptualized and explored the effects of multiple stressors on food webs using 3-species motifs and uncovered that overlooking species interactions invariably underestimates the effects of stressors and that non-additive effects are prevalent in food webs. We applied the theory to a case study and found that apex predators and mesopredators from the Canadian St. Lawrence System are the most sensitive species to the cumulative effects of stressors. However, we show that a species susceptibility to stressors is not only species-specific, but also network-specific, as it varies with food web structure and exposure to specific combinations of stressors. In conceptualizing the effects of multiple stressors on food webs, we bring theory closer to practice and show that considering the intricacies of ecological communities is key to properly assess the effects of stressors on species. This contribution is significant and timely because 1) it is the first exhaustive exploration of the non-additive effects of stressors on food webs, and 2) it provides a clear link between theory and management by illustrating how our framework can be applied to detect the most sensitive species in food webs exposed to various stressors. Recent publications from our group and cited in our proposed manuscript (i.e. Bartley et al. 2019, Nature Ecology & Evolution; Beauchesne et al. 2020, Frontiers in Marine Sciences; Dee et al. 2020, bioRxiv) are focused either on stressors or species interactions in the context of global changes. However, none of these publications are focused on formally conceptualizing and evaluating how multiple stressors propagate through food webs, on non-additive effects or cumulative effects in general. Recent publications from our group, along other publications from the literature, rather support the objectives of the proposed manuscript and the need for a formal exploration of the effects of multiple stressors on food webs.
